Containerized Docker Application Lifecycle - 04.13 (#10676)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/containerized-lifecycle-architecture/design-develop-containerized-apps/build-aspnet-core-applications-linux-containers-aks-kubernetes.md

description: Containerized Docker Application Lifecycle with Microsoft Platform and Tools
author: CESARDELATORRE
ms.author: wiwagn
ms.date: 02/25/2019
---

> # Build ASP.NET Core 2.1 applications deployed as Linux containers into AKS/Kubernetes orchestrator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Build ASP.NET Core 2.1 applications deployed as Linux containers into an AKS/Kubernetes orchestrator
```

**Figure 4-36**. Creating ASP.NET Core Application

To create the sample project in Visual Studio, select **File** > **New** > **Project**, select the **Web** project types in the left pane, followed by **ASP.NET Core Web Application**.

> Visual Studio lists templates for web projects. For our example, you select **Web API,** to create an ASP.NET Web API Application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visual Studio lists templates for web projects. For our example, select **API** to create an ASP.NET Web API Application.
```
At least in my VS version, the text is "API" instead of "Web API"

You can add Docker support when creating the project or afterwards, so you can "Dockerize" your project at any time. To add Docker support after project creation, right-click on the project node in Solution Explorer and select **Add** > **Docker support** on the context menu.

![Context menu option to add Docker support to an existing project: Right click (on the project) > Add > Docker Support.](media/add-docker-support-to-project.png)

**Figure 4-38**. Adding Docker support to existing project

To complete adding Docker support, you can choose Windows or Linux. In this case, select **Linux**, because AKS doesn’t support Windows Containers (as of late 2018).

![Option dialog to select Target OS for Dockerfile.](media/select-linux-docker-support.png)

**Figure 4-39**. Selecting Linux containers.

With these simple steps, you have your ASP.NET Core 2.1 application running on a Linux container.

As you can see, the integration between Visual Studio 2017 and Docker is totally oriented to the developer’s productivity.

Now you can run your application with the **F5** key or by using the **Play** button.

> After running the project, you can list the images using the `docker images` command. You should see the `mssampleapplication` image created with the automatic deployment of our project with Visual Studio 2017.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the project, you can list the images using the `docker images` command. You should see the `mssampleapplication` image created by the automatic deployment of our project with Visual Studio 2017.
```

## Register the Solution in the Azure Container Registry

Upload the image to any Docker registry, like [Azure Container Registry (ACR)](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-registry/) or Docker Hub, so the images can be deployed to the AKS cluster from that registry. In this case, we’re uploading the image to Azure Container Registry.

### Create the image in Release mode

> We'll now create the image in **Release** mode (ready for production) by changing to **Release** as in Figure 4-41 and running the application as we did before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll now create the image in **Release** mode (ready for production) by changing to **Release**, as shown in Figure 4-41, and running the application as we did before.
```

**Figure 4-46**. View of nodes

> The next step is to deploy your container into your AKS Kubernetes clusterm for that you need a file (**.yml deploy file**) that, in this case, contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to deploy your container into your AKS Kubernetes cluster. For that, you need a file (**.yml deploy file**) that contains the following:
```
